Source Path: Guide/2+slice+Dualit+toaster+Disassembly/133074
Original Title: 2 slice Dualit toaster Disassembly
--------------------

Заголовок: 2 slice Dualit toaster Disassembly

--- ВВЕДЕНИЕ ---
Введение
This guide is designed to assist in the service and repair of the Dualit toaster, showing the correct disassembly of the Dualit toaster

--- ШАГИ ---

Шаг 1:
4 x rubber feet
5 x metal screws
Remove the rubber feet and screws with a phillips head screw driver.

Шаг 2:
1 x Matte Aluminium Bottom Plate
After removing the Feet and Screws the Bottom plate simply lifts off.

Шаг 3:
simply slide out the aluminium crumb tray

Шаг 4:
1 x Stainless Steel main casing
6 x Phillips Head Metal Screws
Remove screws from main body of toaster and ply the metal casing off with your hands from either side.

Шаг 5:
1 x  Casted  Aluminium End Cap from the  left hand side of the toaster
After removing the screws from part 4 this end cap will just pull off with a gentle tug.

Шаг 6:
1 x Cast Aluminium timer casing
To remove the other side casing of the toaster you must first disconnect the electrical cords from the elements
Once all the cords are unplugged the casing will simply pull off the same way as the other side casing was removed

Шаг 7:
2 x Nut
2 x Bolt
2 x Washers
1 x Galvanised Steel elements fastener plate
To remove the element fastener plate us the pliers to prevent the nut from twisting whilst unscrewing the bolt with the PH screwdriver.
Once unscrewed the plate should easily pull away.

Шаг 8:
1 x Lever mechanism
1 x Spring
1 x Washer
1 x Plastic lever handle
2 x Aluminium fastening plates
To remove the Lever mechanism you must first unscrew and remove the black plastic handle.
After this the two fastening plate will can be removed. The screws holding these in place have already been removed in the previous step.
The lever mechanism can now be removed from the toaster. This may take some manoeuvring for the mechanism to slide out.

Шаг 9:
3 x heating elements
2 x Brass dividers
2 x Copper wires
2 x Bolts
6 x Washers
4 x Nuts
To remove the heating elements unscrew the bolts with the PH screwdriver whilst holding the nuts with the pliers
Once unscrewed the wires and copper dividers are able to be removed. Then simple slide out the heating elements. The elements need to be replaced in the same slots they came from so label them.

Шаг 10:
2x aluminium internal side panels.
These thin aluminium plates will then be removed from the main body assembly. These sheets help reduce heat admitted from the toaster upon use.

Шаг 11:
3x bent stainless steel excursions.
These parts are holding the bread in a perfect position in relation to the elements. They are then to be popped out of place from the main body assembly.

Шаг 12:
This is the final sub assemble or main body you are left with. This body is the queen bee of all the above parts.